= Chamberconf 1 =

== To nie zawsze wina aplikacji ==

Bandwidth testing - use different packet sizes, traffic shapes etc.

Kirk Pepperdine performance materials.
Weave monitoring into the application during the deisgn phase - account for possible numbers(resource usage, data flow).
Charting these values may provide new perspective.

JavaMelody, Zabbix, Nagios, Ganglia

slideshare d0cent high-availability introduction

A backup copy has to go to a geographically separated location to avoid natural disasters.

Recovery Point Objective - how muc data is lost when restoring
Recovery Time Objective - how much time it takes to restore

snapshot/replica is not a proper backup:
- it is not geographically separated
- snapshots are not permanent - they're being overwritten, sometimes without our consent

=== Network topology ===

Switchers prefer big packets - the capacities highlghted by vendors are achievable in favorable conditions.
Dense small packet traffic can cause jams nevertheless.
Przepływność na ang. - symbol rate?

Defense in depth

=== Sharing the infrasttructure ===

Net, disks, fs, virtualization can be shared between products, internal systems, presales, preproduction.

Remember about system load when creating a lot of virtual machines on a single host - the system has to do context switching.
It compounds with the user load, giving a higher total load than reported by default metrics.

vMotion can cause resource transfe loops.

Xen and LXC mentioned as VM alternatives.
Light virtualizations do not pretend that we have more resources than we actually do.

Containers allow lbrary sharing.

If the infrastructure sucks, show load tests to prove it.

Create SLAs for when will your application be working.

Performance lab?

There is no one-size-fits-all solution, but Nagios is a bit too complicated for starters - there is a lot of data nobody knows what to do with.
Simple tools - iostat on the server. For the first few days don't aggregate the data, just try to understand what is going on.
Measure the key characteristics that are of utmost importance for your application.

