= MSc - Vertex cover problem =

== What is a graph? ==

A triple set:
- vertices $V(G)$
- edges $E(G)$
- relations $E(G)\rightarrow V(G)$

Possibilities:
- loop
- finite/infinite graph
- complete graph
  - for each pair of vertices there is an edge
  - $K_n$ for $n$ vertices
  - for $\left|V(G)\right|=n$ vertices 
    there are $\begin{pmatrix} n\\2 \end{pmatrix}$ edges possible

$H$ is a subgraph of $G$: $V(H) \subseteq V(G), E(H) \subseteq E(G)$, the
endpoints in $H$ are assigned the same as in $G$. (This is really intuitive - 
consider the name *subgraph*)

$H$ is an induced subgraph of $G$ on $S$, where $S \subseteq V(G)$: 
$V(H) = S$ and $E(H)$ is the set of edges of $G$ such that both the endpoints 
belong to $S$.

(If an edge of the selected subgraph does not exist in the original graph, you
draw it anyway - this is an induced subgraph.)

A graph is *connected* if each of its vertices belongs to a path.
A *path* connects any vertex with a selected one.

== Isomorphism ==

An Isomorphism from a simple graph $G$ to a simple graph $H$ is a bijection
$f: V(G) \rightarrow V(H)$ such that $(u, v) \in E(G)$ if and only if
$(f(u), f(v)) \in E(H)$

What it means that vertices of one graph can be mapped to vertices of another
one, based on how they are connected.
(example - two identical graphs, but drawn differently)

== Acyclic graph ==

A graph without any cycles is an *acyclic* graph.

A *tree* is an acyclic connected graph.

A *forest* is an acyclic disconnected graph.

== Bipartite graph ==

Graph $g$ is *bipartite* if $V(G)$ is the union of two disjoint (possibly empty)
independent sets called *partite sets* of $G$.

A subset $S \in V(G)$ is an independent set if the included subgraph on $S$
contains no edges. That means a subset of vertices that are not directly
connected.

If a graph is cyclic, it can be a bipartite graph only if the cycle is even
(includes an even number of vertices).

A tree is a bipartite graph.

A complete graph can be bipartite - it is denoted as $K_{n,m}$ where $n,m$ are
the number of vertices in each partite set.

== Vertex cover ==

A set $S \subseteq V(G)$ is a vertex cover of $G$ (of the edges in $G$) if every
edge of $G$ is incident with a vertex in $S$.

A vertex cover of the minimum cardinality is called a *minimum vertex cover*,
denoted as $MVC(G)$.

What it means is that every edge touches at least one of the vertices belonging
to the cover.

*Q:* What is the cardinality of MVC in the complete graph $K_n$?

$n-1$

*Q:* What is the cardinality of MVC in the complete bipartite graph $K_{m,n}$?

$min(m,n)$. If it would be possible to do it with less than that, there would
have to exist a vertex that is not a part of the cover.

*Q:* What is the cardinality of MVC in an odd cycle $C_n$?

$\lceil\frac{n}{2}\rceil$. It's not possible to do with less, because the degree
of every vertex is 2.

*Q:* What is the cardinality of MVC in an even cycle $C_n$?

$\frac{n}{2}$. It's not possible to do with less, because the degree of every
vertex is 2.

== Independence/stability number ==

An *independent set* or *stable set* is a set of vertices in a graph, no two of
which are adjacent.

The cardinality of a biggest independent set in $G$ is called the independence
number (or a stability number) of $G$ and is denoted by $\alpha(G)$.

$\alpha(K_n)=1$

$\alpha(K_{m,n})=max(m,n)$

For an odd cycle: $\alpha(C_n)=\left\lfloor\frac{n}{2}\right\rfloor$

For an even cycle: $\alpha(C_n)=\frac{n}{2}$

=== Relations between $\left| MVC(G) \right|$ and $\alpha(G)$: ===

Removing a vertex cover from $G$, the rest is an independent set.

If we remove $MVC$ from $G$, the rest, i.e. $V-MVC$ is an independent set.

So, $\alpha(G) \ge n - \left| MVC(G) \right|$.
Thus, $\left| MVC(G) \right| \ge n - \alpha(G)$.

Similarly, if we remove any independent set from $G$, the rest is a vertex
cover, and so $\left|MVC(G)\right|\le n-\alpha(G)$.

Thus, we get $\left|MVC(G)\right|=n-\alpha(G)$.

If we denote $-MVC(G)$ as $\beta(G)$, then we have $\beta(G)+\alpha(G)=n$.


